<h2>Components</h2>
<p>The Brill Content Management System (CMS) is used for creating web applications. Each application is created as a series pages. Pages are encoded as JSON and specify the components and attributes required to render the page. Just like other CMS, the Brill CMS has a collection of static components for rendering text and images. As well as static components, there are dynamic components that interact with the server and with other components. Actually most of the components are dynamic and interact with the server. Even a simple text component can get the text dynamically from the server.</p>
<p>The components are React components written in Typescript or JavaScript. A comprehensive set of components is supplied but you may wish to develop your own custom components. Custom components can be based on the existing components and make use of the Message Broker for communications with the server. There&rsquo;s no limit to the components you can develop other than what is supported by React and the web browser. Custom components can be added to the CMS and dragged and dropped into pages.</p>
<h2>Data Table example</h2>
<p>The table below is an example of a Data Table component that gets its data from the server and a MySQL database. It&rsquo;s a fully working table, not a screenshot! You can sort by clicking on column headers, search, filter, hide columns, resize columns, download the data as a CSV file etc. The delete option only deletes rows from the local table. Deletion from the MySQL database has not been implemented as otherwise we&rsquo;d end up with no data left in the table!</p>